README.md, before:

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED FILE. DO NOT EDIT DIRECTLY. Edit /templates/README.template.md instead. -->

# Caliber

A terminal-based task journal for developers. Capture ideas without leaving your workflow, find them when you need them.

![caliber demo](examples/hero.gif)

- **Keyboard-driven** — Vim-style navigation that feels natural in the terminal
- **Zero-friction capture** — Press enter and start typing, organize later or don't
- **Project and hub journals** — Keep a journal per repo plus one that follows you everywhere
- **Schedule forward** — Tag a task with a future date and it surfaces when that day comes
- **Filter everything** — Search your entire history by tags, dates, or text
- **Plain markdown** — Commit it, edit it anywhere, let AI agents read it for context

## Why Caliber?

If you live in the terminal, context-switching to a GUI app just to jot down a task breaks your flow. Caliber lives where you work.

Tab over, press enter, start typing. That's it. No forms, no fields, no friction.

Keep a journal per project and a hub journal that follows you everywhere. When you're deep in a repo and remember you need to pay a bill, one keystroke switches context. No need to organize your task manager around your projects — the structure is already there.

Tasks and notes stay where you wrote them. When you want to review what's open, filter across your entire history by tags, dates, or text. When you don't have time to organize, don't. Things surface when you need them.

Your journal is a plain markdown file. Commit it to your repo, read it on your phone, edit it in another app, let your AI coding agent read it for context. No lock-in.

## Installation

```bash
cargo install caliber
```

Requires Rust 1.85+ (edition 2024).

## Quick Start

```bash
caliber                  # Open your journal
```

Launch Caliber in a git repository and it will prompt you to create a project journal. Otherwise, you'll start in your hub journal.

**The basics:**

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `Enter` | Add a new entry |
| `j` / `k` or `↓` / `↑` | Move up and down |
| `h` / `l` or `[` / `]` | Previous / next day |
| `Shift+Tab` | Cycle type: task → note → event |
| `/` | Open filter |
| `` ` `` | Toggle between project and hub journal |
| `?` | Help |

**Entry types:**

```markdown
- [ ] A task
- [x] A completed task
- A note
* An event
```

That's enough to get started. The sections below go deeper.

## Daily View

![daily view demo](examples/entry-ops.gif)

Your home base. Each day is a page in your journal. Navigate between days with `h` / `l` or `[` / `]`, or jump to any date with `\` to open the datepicker.

Entries from other days that target today using `@date` syntax appear in a "Later" section at the top — tasks you scheduled forward will surface when the day comes.

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `h` / `l` or `[` / `]` | Previous / next day |
| `t` | Jump to today |
| `\` | Open datepicker |
| `Enter` | New entry at end |
| `o` / `O` | New entry below / above cursor |
| `i` | Edit selected entry |
| `d` | Delete entry |
| `c` | Toggle task completion |
| `z` | Hide / show completed tasks |
| `s` | Sort entries by type |

### Datepicker

![datepicker demo](examples/datepicker.gif)

Press `\` to open a calendar for quick navigation. Days with entries are highlighted. Navigate with `h/j/k/l` or arrow keys, switch months with `[` and `]`, and press `Enter` to jump to the selected date.

## Filtering

![filter view demo](examples/filter.gif)

Press `/` to search across your entire journal. Filter by entry type, tags, dates, or text — and combine them.

**Examples:**

| Query | Result |
|-------|--------|
| `!tasks` | All incomplete tasks |
| `#work` | Entries tagged #work |
| `!tasks #work` | Incomplete tasks tagged #work |
| `@after:yesterday @before:tomorrow` | Entries from today |
| `meeting #standup` | Entries containing "meeting" with #standup tag |
| `not:#work` | Entries without #work tag |

Edit, toggle, or delete entries directly from filter results. Press `Enter` to quick-add a new entry to today without leaving the filter view.

### Date Filters

Dates in filters support natural language:

- `today`, `tomorrow`, `yesterday`
- `next-mon`, `last-fri`
- `7d` (7 days from now), `-7d` (7 days ago)
- Standard formats: `1/15`, `2025/01/15`

### Combining Filters

- Filters combine with AND: `!tasks #work meeting` finds incomplete tasks tagged #work containing "meeting"
- Entry type filters combine with OR: `!tasks !notes` shows both tasks and notes
- Negative filters combine with OR: `not:#work not:#personal` excludes entries with either tag
- One `@before:` and one `@after:` allowed per query

## Task Management

![selection mode demo](examples/selection.gif)

### Selection Mode

Press `v` to enter selection mode for batch operations. Select multiple entries, then act on all of them at once.

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `v` | Toggle selection on current entry |
| `V` | Select range from last selection to cursor |
| `d` | Delete all selected |
| `c` | Toggle completion on all selected |
| `y` | Yank (copy) all selected |
| `Esc` | Exit selection mode |

### Clipboard

`y` copies the selected entry (or entries in selection mode) to your system clipboard. `p` pastes clipboard content as new entries below the cursor — multi-line paste creates multiple entries.

### Tags

Add tags anywhere in an entry with `#tagname`. Remove the last tag from an entry with `x`, or all tags with `X`.

### Scheduling

Use `@date` to schedule an entry for a future day:

```markdown
- [ ] Review quarterly report @1/15
- [ ] Send birthday card @next-friday
```

Natural date shortcuts are converted when you save:

- `@today`, `@tomorrow`, `@yesterday`
- `@next-monday` (or `@next-mon`)
- `@last-friday` (or `@last-fri`)
- `@3d` (3 days from now), `@-3d` (3 days ago)

The entry appears in the "Later" section when you view the target date.

### Undo / Redo

Most actions can be undone with `u` and redone with `U`. Undo history clears when you navigate to a different day, filter, or journal.

## Favorite Tags

![favorite tags demo](examples/favorite-tags.gif)

Slots `1-9` give you quick access to commonly-used tags.

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `1-9` | Filter by favorite tag |
| `Shift+1-9` | Append favorite tag to selected entry |
| `#1-9` (in edit mode) | Expand to favorite tag name |

Configure your favorites in `config.toml`:

```toml
[favorite_tags]
1 = "feature"
2 = "bug"
3 = "idea"
4 = "next"
```

**Example workflow:** Filter all open tasks with `/!tasks`, enter selection mode with `v`, select what you want to work on today, press `Shift+4` to tag them all with `#next`.

## Saved Filters

Define reusable filter queries in your config, then use `$name` to expand them.

```toml
[filters]
t = "!tasks"
n = "!notes"
next = "!tasks #next"
stale = "!tasks @before:-7d"
```

Now `/$next` expands to `!tasks #next`. Combine them: `$t #work` expands to `!tasks #work`.

## Keyboard Reference

### Daily Mode

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `Enter` | New entry at end |
| `o` | New entry below |
| `O` | New entry above |
| `i` | Edit selected |
| `c` | Toggle task complete |
| `d` | Delete entry |
| `y` | Yank to clipboard |
| `p` | Paste from clipboard |
| `u` | Undo last action |
| `U` | Redo undone action |
| `x` | Remove last tag |
| `X` | Remove all tags |
| `j`/`↓` | Navigate down |
| `k`/`↑` | Navigate up |
| `g` | Jump to first |
| `G` | Jump to last |
| `h`/`[` | Previous day |
| `l`/`]` | Next day |
| `t` | Go to today |
| `z` | Toggle hide completed |
| `s` | Sort entries |
| `r` | Reorder mode |
| `v` | Selection mode |
| `0-9` | Filter favorite tag |
| `Shift+0-9` | Append favorite tag |
| `Shift+Tab` | Cycle entry type |
| `Tab` | Return to filter |
| `` ` `` | Toggle Hub/Project journal |
| `/` | Filter mode |
| `:` | Command mode |
| `?` | Show help |
| `\` | Open datepicker |


### Filter Mode

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `i` | Edit selected |
| `c` | Toggle task complete |
| `d` | Delete entry |
| `y` | Yank to clipboard |
| `p` | Paste from clipboard |
| `u` | Undo last action |
| `U` | Redo undone action |
| `x` | Remove last tag |
| `X` | Remove all tags |
| `j`/`↓` | Navigate down |
| `k`/`↑` | Navigate up |
| `g` | Jump to first |
| `G` | Jump to last |
| `v` | Selection mode |
| `0-9` | Filter favorite tag |
| `Shift+0-9` | Append favorite tag |
| `Shift+Tab` | Cycle entry type |
| `` ` `` | Toggle Hub/Project journal |
| `/` | Filter mode |
| `:` | Command mode |
| `?` | Show help |
| `\` | Open datepicker |
| `Enter` | Quick add to today |
| `r` | Refresh results |
| `Esc`/`Tab` | Exit to daily |


### Edit Mode

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `Enter` | Save and exit |
| `Tab` | Save and new |
| `Shift+Tab` | Toggle entry type |
| `Esc` | Cancel |


### Reorder Mode

Press `r` to manually arrange entries within a day.

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `j`/`↓` | Move entry down |
| `k`/`↑` | Move entry up |
| `r`/`Enter` | Save |
| `Esc` | Cancel |


### Selection Mode

Press `v` for batch operations on multiple entries.

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `v` | Toggle selection |
| `V` | Select range |
| `j`/`↓` | Move cursor down |
| `k`/`↑` | Move cursor up |
| `d` | Delete selected |
| `c` | Toggle completion |
| `y` | Yank selected |
| `x` | Remove last tag |
| `X` | Remove all tags |
| `Shift+0-9` | Append favorite tag |
| `Shift+Tab` | Cycle entry type |
| `Esc` | Exit selection |


### Date Mode

Press `\` to open the calendar picker.

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `h`/`←` | Previous day |
| `l`/`→` | Next day |
| `k`/`↑` | Previous week |
| `j`/`↓` | Next week |
| `[` | Previous month |
| `]` | Next month |
| `Y` | Previous year |
| `y` | Next year |
| `t` | Jump to today |
| `Enter` | Navigate to date |
| `\`/`Esc` | Close datepicker |


### Text Editing

These shortcuts work in all text input modes (Edit, Command, and Filter query):

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `←` | Move cursor left |
| `→` | Move cursor right |
| `Alt+B`/`Ctrl+←` | Move cursor one word left |
| `Alt+F`/`Ctrl+→` | Move cursor one word right |
| `Home`/`Ctrl+A` | Move cursor to start |
| `End`/`Ctrl+E` | Move cursor to end |
| `Backspace` | Delete char before cursor |
| `Delete` | Delete char after cursor |
| `Ctrl+W` | Delete word before cursor |
| `Alt+D` | Delete word after cursor |
| `Ctrl+U` | Delete to start |
| `Ctrl+K` | Delete to end |


### Commands

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `:config` | Edit config in $EDITOR |
| `:journal` | Edit journal in $EDITOR |
| `:scratchpad` | Edit scratchpad in $EDITOR |
| `:quit` | Quit application |


### Filter Syntax

| Pattern | Matches |
|---------|---------|
| `!tasks` | Incomplete tasks |
| `!completed` | Completed tasks |
| `!notes` | Notes only |
| `!events` | Events only |
| `@before:DATE` | Entries before date |
| `@after:DATE` | Entries after date |
| `@overdue` | Entries with past @date |
| `not:#tag` | Entries without tag |
| `not:!type` | Exclude entry type |
| `not:word` | Entries not containing text |
| `#tag` | Entries with tag |
| `$name` | Saved filter |
| `word` | Entries containing text |

## Journal Format

Caliber uses a markdown-compatible format:

```markdown
# 2025/01/15
- [ ] Incomplete task
- [x] Completed task
- A note
* An event

# 2025/01/16
- [ ] Follow up on review @1/20
- Meeting notes from standup #daily
```

Empty days are automatically removed. Non-entry lines (headers, blank lines, raw text) are preserved.

## Configuration

Config file: `~/.config/caliber/config.toml`

Run `caliber init` to create an empty config file. Configuration is optional — Caliber works out of the box with sensible defaults.

```toml
# Custom hub journal path (default: ~/.config/caliber/hub_journal.md)
hub_file = "/path/to/journal.md"

# Custom scratchpad path (default: ~/.config/caliber/scratchpad.md)
scratchpad_file = "~/notes/scratchpad.md"

# Start with completed tasks hidden (default: false)
hide_completed = false

# Custom sort order for 's' command
# Options: completed, uncompleted, notes, events
sort_order = ["uncompleted", "notes", "events", "completed"]

# Date format in header (default: "%m/%d/%y")
header_date_format = "%m/%d/%y"

# Default filter when pressing '/' (default: "!tasks")
default_filter = "!tasks"

# Favorite tags - press 1-9 to filter, Shift+1-9 to append, #1-9 to expand
[favorite_tags]
1 = "feature"
2 = "bug"
3 = "idea"

# Saved filters - use $name in filter queries to expand
[filters]
t = "!tasks"
n = "!notes"
e = "!events"
```

### Project Configuration

Project config at `.caliber/config.toml` overlays the base config — project values override matching keys, while unset options inherit from your base `config.toml`. Similarly, `hub_config.toml` can override settings specifically for your hub journal.

When you launch Caliber in a git repository, it will offer to create a project journal for you. If you declined or want to create one outside a git repo, run `caliber init project`.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat: add recurring entries with @every-* patterns
Implement recurring entries that appear on matching days:
- @every-day: shows every day
- @every-weekday: shows Mon-Fri
- @every-mon..sun: shows on specific weekday
- @every-1..31: shows on day of month (falls back to last day)

Refactor @later system into unified ProjectedEntries architecture:
- ProjectedEntry with kind (Later/Recurring) replaces CrossDayEntry
- FilterResult wraps Entry with location for filter operations
- ↪ indicator for Later, ↺ for Recurring entries

Behavior changes:
- Edit/delete blocked on projected entries (press 'o' to go to source)
- Toggle on Later: toggles source entry
- Toggle on Recurring: materializes completed copy on today
- New filters: @later, @recurring

Add @every-* syntax highlighting in red (matches @date styling)

README.md, after:

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED FILE. DO NOT EDIT DIRECTLY. Edit /templates/README.template.md instead. -->

# Caliber

A terminal-based task journal for developers. Capture ideas without leaving your workflow, find them when you need them.

![caliber demo](examples/hero.gif)

- **Keyboard-driven** — Vim-style navigation that feels natural in the terminal
- **Zero-friction capture** — Press enter and start typing, organize later or don't
- **Project and hub journals** — Keep a journal per repo plus one that follows you everywhere
- **Schedule forward** — Tag a task with a future date and it surfaces when that day comes
- **Filter everything** — Search your entire history by tags, dates, or text
- **Plain markdown** — Commit it, edit it anywhere, let AI agents read it for context

## Why Caliber?

If you live in the terminal, context-switching to a GUI app just to jot down a task breaks your flow. Caliber lives where you work.

Tab over, press enter, start typing. That's it. No forms, no fields, no friction.

Keep a journal per project and a hub journal that follows you everywhere. When you're deep in a repo and remember you need to pay a bill, one keystroke switches context. No need to organize your task manager around your projects — the structure is already there.

Tasks and notes stay where you wrote them. When you want to review what's open, filter across your entire history by tags, dates, or text. When you don't have time to organize, don't. Things surface when you need them.

Your journal is a plain markdown file. Commit it to your repo, read it on your phone, edit it in another app, let your AI coding agent read it for context. No lock-in.

## Installation

```bash
cargo install caliber
```

Requires Rust 1.85+ (edition 2024).

## Quick Start

```bash
caliber                  # Open your journal
```

Launch Caliber in a git repository and it will prompt you to create a project journal. Otherwise, you'll start in your hub journal.

**The basics:**

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `Enter` | Add a new entry |
| `j` / `k` or `↓` / `↑` | Move up and down |
| `h` / `l` or `[` / `]` | Previous / next day |
| `Shift+Tab` | Cycle type: task → note → event |
| `/` | Open filter |
| `` ` `` | Toggle between project and hub journal |
| `?` | Help |

**Entry types:**

```markdown
- [ ] A task
- [x] A completed task
- A note
* An event
```

That's enough to get started. The sections below go deeper.

## Daily View

![daily view demo](examples/entry-ops.gif)

Your home base. Each day is a page in your journal. Navigate between days with `h` / `l` or `[` / `]`, or jump to any date with `\` to open the datepicker.

Entries from other days that target today using `@date` syntax appear in a "Later" section at the top — tasks you scheduled forward will surface when the day comes.

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `h` / `l` or `[` / `]` | Previous / next day |
| `t` | Jump to today |
| `\` | Open datepicker |
| `Enter` | New entry at end |
| `o` / `O` | New entry below / above cursor |
| `i` | Edit selected entry |
| `d` | Delete entry |
| `c` | Toggle task completion |
| `z` | Hide / show completed tasks |
| `s` | Sort entries by type |

### Datepicker

![datepicker demo](examples/datepicker.gif)

Press `\` to open a calendar for quick navigation. Days with entries are highlighted. Navigate with `h/j/k/l` or arrow keys, switch months with `[` and `]`, and press `Enter` to jump to the selected date.

## Filtering

![filter view demo](examples/filter.gif)

Press `/` to search across your entire journal. Filter by entry type, tags, dates, or text — and combine them.

**Examples:**

| Query | Result |
|-------|--------|
| `!tasks` | All incomplete tasks |
| `#work` | Entries tagged #work |
| `!tasks #work` | Incomplete tasks tagged #work |
| `@after:yesterday @before:tomorrow` | Entries from today |
| `meeting #standup` | Entries containing "meeting" with #standup tag |
| `not:#work` | Entries without #work tag |

Edit, toggle, or delete entries directly from filter results. Press `Enter` to quick-add a new entry to today without leaving the filter view.

### Date Filters

Dates in filters support natural language:

- `today`, `tomorrow`, `yesterday`
- `next-mon`, `last-fri`
- `7d` (7 days from now), `-7d` (7 days ago)
- Standard formats: `1/15`, `2025/01/15`

### Combining Filters

- Filters combine with AND: `!tasks #work meeting` finds incomplete tasks tagged #work containing "meeting"
- Entry type filters combine with OR: `!tasks !notes` shows both tasks and notes
- Negative filters combine with OR: `not:#work not:#personal` excludes entries with either tag
- One `@before:` and one `@after:` allowed per query

## Task Management

![selection mode demo](examples/selection.gif)

### Selection Mode

Press `v` to enter selection mode for batch operations. Select multiple entries, then act on all of them at once.

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `v` | Toggle selection on current entry |
| `V` | Select range from last selection to cursor |
| `d` | Delete all selected |
| `c` | Toggle completion on all selected |
| `y` | Yank (copy) all selected |
| `Esc` | Exit selection mode |

### Clipboard

`y` copies the selected entry (or entries in selection mode) to your system clipboard. `p` pastes clipboard content as new entries below the cursor — multi-line paste creates multiple entries.

### Tags

Add tags anywhere in an entry with `#tagname`. Remove the last tag from an entry with `x`, or all tags with `X`.

### Scheduling

Use `@date` to schedule an entry for a future day:

```markdown
- [ ] Review quarterly report @1/15
- [ ] Send birthday card @next-friday
```

Natural date shortcuts are converted when you save:

- `@today`, `@tomorrow`, `@yesterday`
- `@next-monday` (or `@next-mon`)
- `@last-friday` (or `@last-fri`)
- `@3d` (3 days from now), `@-3d` (3 days ago)

The entry appears in the "Later" section when you view the target date.

### Undo / Redo

Most actions can be undone with `u` and redone with `U`. Undo history clears when you navigate to a different day, filter, or journal.

## Favorite Tags

![favorite tags demo](examples/favorite-tags.gif)

Slots `1-9` give you quick access to commonly-used tags.

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `1-9` | Filter by favorite tag |
| `Shift+1-9` | Append favorite tag to selected entry |
| `#1-9` (in edit mode) | Expand to favorite tag name |

Configure your favorites in `config.toml`:

```toml
[favorite_tags]
1 = "feature"
2 = "bug"
3 = "idea"
4 = "next"
```

**Example workflow:** Filter all open tasks with `/!tasks`, enter selection mode with `v`, select what you want to work on today, press `Shift+4` to tag them all with `#next`.

## Saved Filters

Define reusable filter queries in your config, then use `$name` to expand them.

```toml
[filters]
t = "!tasks"
n = "!notes"
next = "!tasks #next"
stale = "!tasks @before:-7d"
```

Now `/$next` expands to `!tasks #next`. Combine them: `$t #work` expands to `!tasks #work`.

## Keyboard Reference

### Daily Mode

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `Enter` | New entry at end |
| `o` | New entry below |
| `O` | New entry above |
| `i` | Edit selected |
| `c` | Toggle task complete |
| `d` | Delete entry |
| `y` | Yank to clipboard |
| `p` | Paste from clipboard |
| `u` | Undo last action |
| `U` | Redo undone action |
| `x` | Remove last tag |
| `X` | Remove all tags |
| `j`/`↓` | Navigate down |
| `k`/`↑` | Navigate up |
| `g` | Jump to first |
| `G` | Jump to last |
| `h`/`[` | Previous day |
| `l`/`]` | Next day |
| `t` | Go to today |
| `z` | Toggle hide completed |
| `s` | Sort entries |
| `r` | Reorder mode |
| `v` | Selection mode |
| `0-9` | Filter favorite tag |
| `Shift+0-9` | Append favorite tag |
| `Shift+Tab` | Cycle entry type |
| `Tab` | Return to filter |
| `` ` `` | Toggle Hub/Project journal |
| `/` | Filter mode |
| `:` | Command mode |
| `?` | Show help |
| `\` | Open datepicker |


### Filter Mode

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `i` | Edit selected |
| `c` | Toggle task complete |
| `d` | Delete entry |
| `y` | Yank to clipboard |
| `p` | Paste from clipboard |
| `u` | Undo last action |
| `U` | Redo undone action |
| `x` | Remove last tag |
| `X` | Remove all tags |
| `j`/`↓` | Navigate down |
| `k`/`↑` | Navigate up |
| `g` | Jump to first |
| `G` | Jump to last |
| `v` | Selection mode |
| `0-9` | Filter favorite tag |
| `Shift+0-9` | Append favorite tag |
| `Shift+Tab` | Cycle entry type |
| `` ` `` | Toggle Hub/Project journal |
| `/` | Filter mode |
| `:` | Command mode |
| `?` | Show help |
| `\` | Open datepicker |
| `Enter` | Quick add to today |
| `r` | Refresh results |
| `Esc`/`Tab` | Exit to daily |


### Edit Mode

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `Enter` | Save and exit |
| `Tab` | Save and new |
| `Shift+Tab` | Toggle entry type |
| `Esc` | Cancel |


### Reorder Mode

Press `r` to manually arrange entries within a day.

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `j`/`↓` | Move entry down |
| `k`/`↑` | Move entry up |
| `r`/`Enter` | Save |
| `Esc` | Cancel |


### Selection Mode

Press `v` for batch operations on multiple entries.

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `v` | Toggle selection |
| `V` | Select range |
| `j`/`↓` | Move cursor down |
| `k`/`↑` | Move cursor up |
| `d` | Delete selected |
| `c` | Toggle completion |
| `y` | Yank selected |
| `x` | Remove last tag |
| `X` | Remove all tags |
| `Shift+0-9` | Append favorite tag |
| `Shift+Tab` | Cycle entry type |
| `Esc` | Exit selection |


### Date Mode

Press `\` to open the calendar picker.

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `h`/`←` | Previous day |
| `l`/`→` | Next day |
| `k`/`↑` | Previous week |
| `j`/`↓` | Next week |
| `[` | Previous month |
| `]` | Next month |
| `Y` | Previous year |
| `y` | Next year |
| `t` | Jump to today |
| `Enter` | Navigate to date |
| `\`/`Esc` | Close datepicker |


### Text Editing

These shortcuts work in all text input modes (Edit, Command, and Filter query):

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `←` | Move cursor left |
| `→` | Move cursor right |
| `Alt+B`/`Ctrl+←` | Move cursor one word left |
| `Alt+F`/`Ctrl+→` | Move cursor one word right |
| `Home`/`Ctrl+A` | Move cursor to start |
| `End`/`Ctrl+E` | Move cursor to end |
| `Backspace` | Delete char before cursor |
| `Delete` | Delete char after cursor |
| `Ctrl+W` | Delete word before cursor |
| `Alt+D` | Delete word after cursor |
| `Ctrl+U` | Delete to start |
| `Ctrl+K` | Delete to end |


### Commands

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `:config` | Edit config in $EDITOR |
| `:journal` | Edit journal in $EDITOR |
| `:scratchpad` | Edit scratchpad in $EDITOR |
| `:quit` | Quit application |


### Filter Syntax

| Pattern | Matches |
|---------|---------|
| `!tasks` | Incomplete tasks |
| `!completed` | Completed tasks |
| `!notes` | Notes only |
| `!events` | Events only |
| `@before:DATE` | Entries before date |
| `@after:DATE` | Entries after date |
| `@overdue` | Entries with past @date |
| `@later` | Entries with @date patterns |
| `@recurring` | Entries with @every-* patterns |
| `not:#tag` | Entries without tag |
| `not:!type` | Exclude entry type |
| `not:word` | Entries not containing text |
| `#tag` | Entries with tag |
| `$name` | Saved filter |
| `word` | Entries containing text |

## Journal Format

Caliber uses a markdown-compatible format:

```markdown
# 2025/01/15
- [ ] Incomplete task
- [x] Completed task
- A note
* An event

# 2025/01/16
- [ ] Follow up on review @1/20
- Meeting notes from standup #daily
```

Empty days are automatically removed. Non-entry lines (headers, blank lines, raw text) are preserved.

## Configuration

Config file: `~/.config/caliber/config.toml`

Run `caliber init` to create an empty config file. Configuration is optional — Caliber works out of the box with sensible defaults.

```toml
# Custom hub journal path (default: ~/.config/caliber/hub_journal.md)
hub_file = "/path/to/journal.md"

# Custom scratchpad path (default: ~/.config/caliber/scratchpad.md)
scratchpad_file = "~/notes/scratchpad.md"

# Start with completed tasks hidden (default: false)
hide_completed = false

# Custom sort order for 's' command
# Options: completed, uncompleted, notes, events
sort_order = ["uncompleted", "notes", "events", "completed"]

# Date format in header (default: "%m/%d/%y")
header_date_format = "%m/%d/%y"

# Default filter when pressing '/' (default: "!tasks")
default_filter = "!tasks"

# Favorite tags - press 1-9 to filter, Shift+1-9 to append, #1-9 to expand
[favorite_tags]
1 = "feature"
2 = "bug"
3 = "idea"

# Saved filters - use $name in filter queries to expand
[filters]
t = "!tasks"
n = "!notes"
e = "!events"
```

### Project Configuration

Project config at `.caliber/config.toml` overlays the base config — project values override matching keys, while unset options inherit from your base `config.toml`. Similarly, `hub_config.toml` can override settings specifically for your hub journal.

When you launch Caliber in a git repository, it will offer to create a project journal for you. If you declined or want to create one outside a git repo, run `caliber init project`.

## License

MIT
